Architectural Documentation (#52)
base-org/pessimism: docs/ETL.md

* _(Optional)_ Interface with some storage (postgres, mongo, etc.) to persist lively extracted data
* _(Optional)_ Backtest support for polling some data between some starting and ending block heights
* _(Optional)_ Use of an application state cache to understand which parameter sets to sequentially feed to an endpoint

#### Example Use Case(s)
* Polling layer-2 block data in real-time for state updates
* Interval polling user provided chain addresses for native ETH amounts

### (TBD) Aggregator
**NOTE - This component type is still in-development**

> Aggregators are used to solve the problem where a pipe or an invariant input will require multiple data points to perform an execution sequence. Since aggregators are subscribing to more than one data stream with different output frequencies, they must employ a synchronization policy for collecting and propagating multi-data inputs within a highly asynchronous environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aggregators are used to solve the problem where a pipe or an invariant input will require multiple sources of data to perform an execution sequence. Since aggregators are subscribing to more than one data stream with different output frequencies, they must employ a synchronization policy for collecting and propagating multi-data inputs within a highly asynchronous environment.
```

> #### Attributes

Reviewer: Not the biggest deal, but the below bullets aren't in the same format, low priority but nice to have is aligning them to all be the same semantic structure

> * Able to read heterogenous transit data from multiple component ingressses (>=1)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Able to read heterogenous transit data from an arbitrary number of component ingresses
```

Author: [657a6d9](https://github.com/base-org/pessimism/pull/52/commits/657a6d927050e5efa341501dbd79f129582f1754)

Single Value Subscription refers to a synchronization policy where a bucketed multi-data tuple is submitted every time there’s an update to a single input data queue.

For example we can have an invariant that subscribes to blocks from two heterogenous chains (layer1, layer2) or `{ChainA, ChainB}`, let's assume `BLOCK_TIME(ChainA)> BLOCK_TIME(ChainB)`.

We can either specify that the invariant will run every-time there's an update or a new block from `ChainA`:
```
{
   "A:latest_blocks": [xi] where cardinality = 1,
   "B:latest_blocks": [yj, ..., yn] where cardinality >= 1,
}

```

 Or we can specify the inverse, every-time there's a new block from `ChainB`:
```
{
   "A:latest_blocks": [NULL OR xi] where cardinality <= 1,
   "B:latest_blocks": [yj] where cardinality = 1,
}
```

This can be extended to any number of heterogenous data sources.

## Registry
A registry submodule is used to store all ETL data register definitions that provide the blueprint for a unique ETL component type. A register definition consists of:
- `DataType` - The output data type of the component node. This is used for data serialization/deserialization by both the ETL and Risk Engine subsystems.

> - `ComponentType` - The type of component being invoked (_ie. Oracle_). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ComponentType` - The type of component being invoked (_e.g. Oracle_). 
```

Author: [657a6d9](https://github.com/base-org/pessimism/pull/52/commits/657a6d927050e5efa341501dbd79f129582f1754)

Unlike, the `GethBlock` register, this register requires knowledge of an address set that's shared with the risk engine to properly function and is therefore addressable. Because of this, any invariant that uses this register must also be addressable.

## Managed ETL

### Component Graph
The ETL uses a `ComponentGraph` construct to represent and store critical component inter-connectivity data _(ie. component node entries and graph edges)_.

A graph edge is represented as a binded communication path between two arbitrary component nodes (`c1`, `c2`). Adding an edge from some component (`c1`) to some downstream component (`c2`) results in `c1` having a path to the ingress of `c2` in it's [egress handler](#egress-handler). This would look something like:

```mermaid
graph TB;

    subgraph "\nEdge"
        subgraph A[component0]
            B[egressHandler];
        end

        subgraph D[component1]
        B -.-> |egress| C(ingressHandler)

        end
    end

    classDef orange fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
    class A,D orange
```

> It's important to note that the component graph used in the ETL is represented as a _(DAG)_ Directed Acylcic Graph; meaning that no bipartite edge relationships should exist between two components (`c1`, `c2`) where `c1-->c2` && `c2-->c1`. While there are no explicit checks for this in the code software, it should be impossible given that all components declare entrypoint register dependencies within their metadata, meaning that a component could only be susceptible to bipartite connectivity in the circumstance where a component registry definition declares inversal input->output of an existing component. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to note that the component graph used in the ETL is represented as a _DAG_ (Directed Acyclic Graph), meaning that no bipartite edge relationships should exist between two components (`c1`, `c2`) where `c1-->c2` && `c2-->c1`. While there are no explicit checks for this in the code software, it should be impossible given that all components declare entrypoint register dependencies within their metadata, meaning that a component could only be susceptible to bipartite connectivity in the circumstance where a component registry definition declares inversal input->output of an existing component. 
```

Author: [657a6d9](https://github.com/base-org/pessimism/pull/52/commits/657a6d927050e5efa341501dbd79f129582f1754)
